1. Enter the number of hours it took you to complete the project between
   the <<< and >>> signs below (eg, <<<10>>>).

   <<<15 >>>
   
2. Enter the difficulty level (1: very easy; 5: very difficult) of the project
   between the <<< and >>> signs below (eg, <<<3>>>).

   <<<4.5 >>>

3. Provide a short description of how you approached each problem, issues you 
   encountered, and how you resolved those issues.

   Problem 1 (Brute-force Implementation)
      Approach: In the problem of brute force implementation i created a instance variable of a
      underlying data structure to store the 2d points and their corresponding values
      RedBlackBST<Point2D, Value> bst.The method BrutePointST() was used to initialize the instance
      bst variable properly in the problem.The method int was used to return the size of bst and the
       boolean isEmpty method was used to return whether the bst was empty or not.Similarly in the
       void put method we inserted the given point and the value into the bst.Likewise the get
       method was used to return the value associated with the given point p in the bst  or null.The
        contains was the boolean method which returned the bst contained the given point p in it .
        similarly the method iterable points was made which returned the iterable object containing
        all the points in bst. likewise method Iterable <Point 2D> range (RectHV rect> was used to
        return all the iterable object containing all the points in bst that falls inside the given
        rectangle passed as an argument. Point2D nearest () was used to return the point from the
        bst that was different from and closed to given point p or null in the problem.The method
        iterable <Point 2D> nearest was used to return the point upto k from the bst that are
        different and closest to the points that are given.The main function was already written so
        did not have to work on it . All the corner cases were handelled properly in the program
        and the perfromance requirements has been matched in the program.In this we we created the
        symbol data table data whose keys are two dimensional points.



      Issues and resolution:
      i forgot to update the minimum distance while finding the nearest points. After several times
      running the program, i was able to find the errors and updated the minimum distance to find
      the
       nearest point.

   Problem 2 (2dTree Implementation)
      Approach: In this problem  I created a instance variable Node root which was the reference to
      the root of 2D Tree and n  which represented the number of nodes in the tree.I created the
      constructor KdPointST() where I initialized the instance variable root and n. The size()
      method was used in the program to return the number of nodes in the 2d Tree and isEmpty was
      used to return whether the 2dTree was empty or not. In the program we implemented the void put
       method which called the private put method with arguments in order to insert the given points
        and value into the 2D Tree. The parameter lr in this and other helper methods was used to
        represent if the current node was x aligned or y- aligned depending upon if it was true or
        false. similarly the Node put (Node x, Point2D p, Value value, RectHV rect, boolean lr) was
        implemented where if the x was null I returned the new Node object. If the point in x was
        the same as the given point I updated the value in x to the given value, otherwise i made a
        recursive call on put() with arguments to insert the given points and value into the left
        subtree x.lb or right subtree x.rt depending upon how x.p and p compared to one another. I
        returned the value of x from the given function.The value get function was used in the
        program inside where i called the private get method with appropriate arguments to find the
        value corresponding to the given point p. The Value get(Node x, Point2D p, boolean lr) was
       was used in the program where if the x was null I returned null else if the point in the x
       was same as the given points I returned the x and  like value Put() method  I made a
       recursive call to get() method with appropriate arguments to find the value of corresponding
       given points in left and right subtree. The boolean contain method was used to check if the
       given points lies inside the 2dTree.Iterable<Point2D> points() was used in the problem to
       return all the points in the 2d Tree collected using a level-order of the tree.
       Iterable<Point2D> range(RectHV rect)  inside which the private method range was called with
       the appropriate arguments and the last one being the empty queue of pointed objects and the
       method returned the queue. The void range () method was called in the program inside which
       when the x was null I returned and else if the rect contained the point in the x i enqueue
       the point into q and made a recursive calls to range() method on the left subtree x.lb and
       right subtree x.rt incorporating with the range search puring rule method which was explained
        in the writeup given in the problem by the professor. In the problem I implemented
        • Point2D nearest(Point2D p) method which returned the point from the 2d Tree that was
        different from and closest to the given point by calling the private method nearest .
        similarly ,Point2D nearest(Node x, Point2D p, Point2D nearest, boolean lr) was implemented
        in which if the x was equal to the null I returned the nearest and if the point x.p was
        different from the given point p and the squared distance between the two is smaller than
        the squared distance between nearest and p i updated nearest to x.p and made a recursive
        call to nearest() on left subtree and right subtree, using the value returned by the first
        call in appropriate manner using the nearest pruning rules mentioned. Iterable<Point2D>
        nearest(Point2D p, int k)  inside which i called the private nearest method passing the
        empty maxPQ of point2D objects as one of the argument and returned the PQ from the function.
          void nearest(Node x, Point2D p, int k, MaxPQ<Point2D> pq, boolean lr) was used in the
          problem where if the x was null or the size of the pq was greater then the k it returned
          from the function, else if the point in x was different from the given point I inserted it
        x to the pq nad if the size of pq exceeded k I removed the maximum point from the pq. I made
         the recursive calls on the nearest() on the left subtree and right subtree with the help of
          nearest neighbor pruning rules.I looked after all the corner cases in the problem.



      Issues and resolution:
      I made mistakes while creating the RectHV object due to which i made a error while finding out
       the x.lb and x.rt in the private put method. As it was a long problem i made an error with
       the curly braces too.
        I fixed the error by checking whether it was horizontal aligned or vertical aligned and
        passed the appropriate argument in the function call.

4. Did you receive help from anyone? List their names, status (classmate, 
   CS210 grad, TA, other), and the nature of help received.

   Name               Status       Help Received
   ----               ------       -------------

   ...                ...          ...

5. List any other comments here. Feel free to provide any feedback on how
   much you learned from doing the assignment, and whether you enjoyed
   doing it.


